In the Junit framework introduction lecture
I have mentioned about the @Before and @After annotations
that can be used to mark the
setup and cleanup methods or teardown methods
that will be executed before each test method
and after each test method respectively
so that we can setup all the objects or the data
that we require for each test case in the setup method
that is marked with @Before and we can
clean up those objects and data in the method
that is marked with a @After annotation.
In this lecture, we will see those two in action
will be refactoring our test class in here so maximize it go in here
lets start with @Before annotation
from the org.junit package
type in a method public void setup
we can call it what ever you want it doesn't matter
but from the earlier versions of junit
we had a naming convension where we had to call it setup
in this method we will move this
greeting creation to that method
you can just point your mouse pointer onto this line
hold the alt key and press the
up arrow.
Now we will split this and move this variable
or will make this greeting object a field
place the mouse curser on greeting
hit ctrl1 convert local variable to fields select that
and now greeting is
field and we are creating instance inside the setup method
we can remove
it a creation of instance from the other
two test methods place your mouse curser on the
greeting implementation creation line hit ctrl D
save for the other test method as well
we are creating it in one single place in the setup method
which will be executed
before each of these test methods
setup method will run 3 times because we have
3 test methods in here.
Now lets do the clean up portion
will come up with the
let me add some lines so that you can see it clearly
in here @After
hit ctrl space
again After annotation from the junit API
public void you can call it whatever you want
general practice teardown
again from the earlier versions of junit
we call it teardown you can call it cleanup or whatever you want.
In here, in this scenario we don't have much to do
simply trig the greeting class instance
for global field and make it null which is very obvious
you need not do this , I just wanted to demostrate
how we should be using setup and teardown
methods.As our test grow in size
will be using setup and treadown ina better way.
lets add some system.out.println statements here
just to see the order
in which these methods are executed.
lets put setup here
copy the system.out.println and paste it in one of our test
and also paste it in teardown
now take the method name
replace the
setup with that
you can also add system.out.println
to other methods
copy it again
go into the personal senario test
hit the method name
paste it
lets also do it
in the other test method
I'll leave that alone
paste it , hit the method name
copy paste it
now lets run this test
run it you can simply go here run as
junit test
everything is green that is not what we are looking for
we look at the console for our system.out.println
you see that the system gets called first
then one of the test we don't know
in which order they get called but the important thing is setup
then the test method teardown again the setup again a test method and teardown and so on.
So thats the improtant thing.
In this lecture, you have learnt
how to use the
@Before and @After annotations
to initialize any data that is required for each test
and to cleanup the data after execution of each test method.